docs/mcp/Connections.md, before:

# OODS MCP Connections

Local developers can point external agent clients at the OODS MCP bridge to exercise the read-only toolchain. This guide covers setup, connection profiles for Claude Desktop and the OpenAI Responses/Agents API, and the `agents-smoke` harness used to validate the bridge.

## Prerequisites

- Build the stdio MCP server once so the bridge can spawn its entry point:

  ```bash
  pnpm --filter @oods/mcp-server run build
  ```

- Start the HTTP bridge (spawns the server subprocess automatically):

  ```bash
  pnpm --filter @oods/mcp-bridge run dev
  ```

- The bridge logs the bound port (example: `[mcp-bridge] listening on :53726`). It defaults to `4466`, but if that port is busy it picks an ephemeral port. Set `MCP_BRIDGE_PORT=<port>` before launching to pin a specific port.

- Optional: export `BRIDGE_TOKEN` to enforce the `X-Bridge-Token` header. Leave it unset when pairing with Claude Desktop, which cannot forward custom headers for remote MCP servers.

The bridge listens on `http://127.0.0.1:${MCP_BRIDGE_PORT:-4466}` and exposes `GET /health`, `GET /tools`, `POST /run`, and `/artifacts/*`.

## Claude Remote MCP

`configs/agents/claude.remote-mcp.json` contains a ready-to-drop profile. Copy the `claudeDesktopConfig` block into `~/.claude/mcp.json` (or the per-OS Claude Desktop configuration path):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "oods-foundry-bridge": {
      "type": "remote",
      "url": "http://127.0.0.1:4466"
    }
  }
}
```

Key points:

- The bridge serves read-only tools (including `structuredData.fetch`, `tokens.build`, `repl.validate`, `repl.render`, `a11y.scan`, `purity.audit`, `vrt.run`, `diag.snapshot`), plus write-gated tools that remain locked until an approval header is supplied.
- Because Claude Desktop omits custom headers for remote servers, keep token enforcement disabled when using this profile.
- If the default port is busy, start the bridge with `MCP_BRIDGE_PORT=<port>` and update the `url` accordingly.

## OpenAI Responses/Agents

`configs/agents/openai.agents.json` captures a thin agent profile pointing to the bridge:

- Default base URL: `http://127.0.0.1:4466`
- Function tool definition: `diag_snapshot` (maps to the bridge tool `diag.snapshot`)
- Request template: `POST /run` with `{"tool":"diag.snapshot","input":{"apply":false}}`

Integrate it by:

1. Loading the JSON and registering the function schema with the Responses/Agents API.
2. Supplying a tool-calling callback that issues the documented `POST /run` request. Forward `X-Bridge-Token` when the bridge enforces tokens, and only pass `X-Bridge-Approval` when escalating to write tools.
3. Keeping `apply` set to `false` for diagnostics-only runs.

Before each session, call `GET /tools` to refresh the allowlisted names; the harness logs them for reference.

## Smoke Harness

The mission ships `tools/agents-smoke`, a minimal TypeScript CLI that exercises the bridge end-to-end:

```bash
pnpm --filter @oods/agents-smoke run
```

Behaviour:

- Reads `BRIDGE_URL`, `BRIDGE_TOKEN`, and `BRIDGE_APPROVAL` (defaults: `http://127.0.0.1:4466`, no token, no approval).
- Checks `/health`, lists tools, then runs `diag.snapshot` with `apply:false`.
- Prints artifact paths, bundle index, and diagnostics summary to verify the toolchain.

When the bridge picks an ephemeral port, start the harness with `BRIDGE_URL=http://127.0.0.1:<actualPort> pnpm --filter @oods/agents-smoke run`.
`diag.snapshot` can take up to two minutes to collect diagnostics; extend the wait with `BRIDGE_TIMEOUT=120000` (default) or higher if your environment is slower.

Flags:

- `--tool <name>` – choose a different bridge tool (must be allowlisted).
- `--apply` – send `apply:true` plus `X-Bridge-Approval` (requires the header value in `BRIDGE_APPROVAL`).

Use the harness after any connector or policy change to confirm the bridge still returns artifacts under `artifacts/current-state/<date>/`.

Commit message:

Sprint 44: HTML Render & Bridge Unblock (6/6) Mission	Outcome s44-m01 Bridge policy fixes	apply mode + structuredData.fetch unblocked s44-m02 Component mapper	UiSchema names → HTML renderer functions s44-m03 Tree walker + layout resolver	Recursive UiSchema → HTML emitter s44-m04 HTML document wrapper	Self-contained HTML with inlined tokens CSS s44-m05 Output schema + handler	html field added, backward-compatible dry-run s44-m06 E2E bridge verification	Full pipeline verified, integration contract documented

docs/mcp/Connections.md, after:

# OODS MCP Connections

Local developers can point external agent clients at the OODS MCP bridge to exercise the MCP toolchain. This guide covers setup, connection profiles for Claude Desktop and the OpenAI Responses/Agents API, and the `agents-smoke` harness used to validate the bridge.

## Prerequisites

- Build the stdio MCP server once so the bridge can spawn its entry point:

  ```bash
  pnpm --filter @oods/mcp-server run build
  ```

- Start the HTTP bridge (spawns the server subprocess automatically):

  ```bash
  pnpm --filter @oods/mcp-bridge run dev
  ```

- The bridge logs the bound port (example: `[mcp-bridge] listening on :53726`). It defaults to `4466`, but if that port is busy it picks an ephemeral port. Set `MCP_BRIDGE_PORT=<port>` before launching to pin a specific port.

- Optional: export `BRIDGE_TOKEN` to enforce the `X-Bridge-Token` header. Leave it unset when pairing with Claude Desktop, which cannot forward custom headers for remote MCP servers.

The bridge listens on `http://127.0.0.1:${MCP_BRIDGE_PORT:-4466}` and exposes `GET /health`, `GET /tools`, `POST /run`, and `/artifacts/*`.

## Claude Remote MCP

`configs/agents/claude.remote-mcp.json` contains a ready-to-drop profile. Copy the `claudeDesktopConfig` block into `~/.claude/mcp.json` (or the per-OS Claude Desktop configuration path):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "oods-foundry-bridge": {
      "type": "remote",
      "url": "http://127.0.0.1:4466"
    }
  }
}
```

Key points:

- The bridge serves diagnostics/read tools plus apply-gated tools. `repl.render` supports both `dry-run` and `apply` modes, while write-gated tools still require an approval header when `apply:true`.
- Because Claude Desktop omits custom headers for remote servers, keep token enforcement disabled when using this profile.
- If the default port is busy, start the bridge with `MCP_BRIDGE_PORT=<port>` and update the `url` accordingly.

## OpenAI Responses/Agents

`configs/agents/openai.agents.json` captures a thin agent profile pointing to the bridge:

- Default base URL: `http://127.0.0.1:4466`
- Function tool definition: `diag_snapshot` (maps to internal MCP tool `diag.snapshot`)
- Request template: `POST /run` with `{"tool":"diag_snapshot","input":{"apply":false}}`

Integrate it by:

1. Loading the JSON and registering the function schema with the Responses/Agents API.
2. Supplying a tool-calling callback that issues the documented `POST /run` request. Forward `X-Bridge-Token` when the bridge enforces tokens, and only pass `X-Bridge-Approval` when escalating to write tools.
3. Keeping `apply` set to `false` for diagnostics-only runs.

Before each session, call `GET /tools` to refresh the allowlisted names; the harness logs them for reference.

## Tool Name Translation (Workbench)

Bridge `/run` accepts either:

- External bridge names (underscores, returned by `GET /tools`): `structuredData_fetch`, `repl_render`, `diag_snapshot`
- Internal MCP names (dots, accepted for backward compatibility): `structuredData.fetch`, `repl.render`, `diag.snapshot`

Recommendation for Synthesis Workbench:

- Use the exact names returned by `GET /tools` (underscore form) when calling `/run`.
- Keep existing dot-form callers temporarily; bridge maps them to the same internal MCP tools.
- For the full endpoint/header/request/response contract, use `docs/mcp/Workbench-Integration-Contract.md`.

## Smoke Harness

The mission ships `tools/agents-smoke`, a minimal TypeScript CLI that exercises the bridge end-to-end:

```bash
pnpm --filter @oods/agents-smoke run
```

Behaviour:

- Reads `BRIDGE_URL`, `BRIDGE_TOKEN`, and `BRIDGE_APPROVAL` (defaults: `http://127.0.0.1:4466`, no token, no approval).
- Checks `/health`, lists tools, then runs `diag.snapshot` with `apply:false`.
- Prints artifact paths, bundle index, and diagnostics summary to verify the toolchain.

When the bridge picks an ephemeral port, start the harness with `BRIDGE_URL=http://127.0.0.1:<actualPort> pnpm --filter @oods/agents-smoke run`.
`diag.snapshot` can take up to two minutes to collect diagnostics; extend the wait with `BRIDGE_TIMEOUT=120000` (default) or higher if your environment is slower.

Flags:

- `--tool <name>` – choose a different bridge tool (must be allowlisted).
- `--apply` – send `apply:true` plus `X-Bridge-Approval` (requires the header value in `BRIDGE_APPROVAL`).

Use the harness after any connector or policy change to confirm the bridge still returns artifacts under `artifacts/current-state/<date>/`.
